---
layout: manual
title: Installation
---

h2. System Requirements

h3. Hardware

* CPU at 1.5GHz or higher
* 1.0 GB RAM
* 1.0 GB available in the hard disk (default installation requires about 150 MB but test results might need additional capacity)

h3. Software

* Operating System: Microsoft Windows, Linux, Oracle Solaris, HP-UX, or Mac OS X, that is any operating system for which a JVM 7 (or higher) is available.
* JVM: It's recommended to use Oracle's JVM. XLT also runs on OpenJDK. JVMs provided by vendors such as OpenJDK BEA, HP, or IBM have not been tested extensively and may or may not work.
* Browser: Firefox, Chrome, Internet Explorer 10, or Safari 6 for the HTML load reports. Note that JavaScript has to be enabled to utilize all functionality. If you want to use XLT Script Developer, you need to have Firefox 31 (or higher).

h2. Installing XLT

Unzip the XLT archive to a file system location of your choice. The root directory is part of the archive, so you don't need to create it separately. XLT supports spaces in the path; however, it's easier to code tests when the path is free of them.

Copy the license file to the directory @<XLT>/config@. Please note that the _Basic License_ does not require the installation of a license file. It restricts the number of virtual users to five; yet there are neither temporal nor functional limitations. Also note that the _Basic License Terms_ apply in that case. See <XLT>/doc/license.html for more information.

Make sure the executable directory of your Java installation is listed in your @PATH@ environment variable so that the XLT start scripts can find the JVM runtime.

To install the XLT Script Developer extension for Firefox, you need to:

* Start Firefox.
* Click _File_ > _Open File..._.
* Navigate to the @<XLT>/tools@ directory and select the @.xpi@ file. The Add-on installation dialog appears.
* Click _Install_ to finish.

If the _File_ Menu is not visible, you can also install the XLT Script Developer like this:

* Start Firefox.
* Open the Menu (The three horizontal bars on the upper right-hand side).
* Click on _Add-Ons_.
* Choose _Extensions_.
* Click the gear symbol next to the Search bar.
* Click on _Install Add-On from File_.
* Navigate to the @<XLT>/tools@ directory and select the @.xpi@ file. The Add-on installation dialog appears.
* Click _Install_ to finish.

Alternatively, you can drag the @.xpi@ file onto the Firefox window.

bq(note). The XLT archive can either be obtained from the _Xceptance_ website or from our Maven-compatible repository which allows users of Maven and Ivy to conveniently integrate XLT and all of its dependencies.

h2. Updating XLT

Before you update XLT, it's highly recommended to back up all modified files and project-specific or customized settings. In particular, this includes:

* All your *test suites* (especially, when stored in a sub-folder of the XLT installation directory)
* *Result* files (stored in @<XLT>/results@ by default)
* Generated load test *reports* (stored in @<XLT>/reports@ by default)
* Modified XLT *properties* files (@<XLT>/config@)
* The *license* file _license.xml_ (@<XLT>/config@)

Download and install the latest XLT version from the _Xceptance_ website as described above. You can have multiple XLT versions simultaneously since the name of the unpacked installation folder includes the version number by default.

Copy your backed-up files and directories to the corresponding place in the new XLT installation directory.

New test suite settings are provided in the *default.properties* file of the test suite _testsuite-template_. Copy it from @<LatestXLTversion>/samples/testsuite-template/config@ to the config directory of your test suites @<YourTestSuite>/config@.

To update XLT Script Developer, go to _File > Open File_ in the Firefox menu, and then open the latest @.xpi@ file located at @<LatestXLTversion>/tools@. Alternatively, drag the @.xpi@ file and drop it onto Firefox. If you work with Java-based test cases, add the updated XLT libraries to the Java build path of the Eclipse project. See "Importing the Posters Test Suite into Eclipse":07-posters.html for more information.

bq(note). Note that when you configure your test project to use a newer version of XLT, do not forget to update XLT on your load machines as well. The version you have used to develop your test scripts must match the executing version of your load test environment.

h2. Uninstalling XLT

Before uninstalling XLT, make sure to back up all test results and test reports you want to keep. To uninstall XLT, simply delete its installation directory. Use the Firefox Add-on dialog to remove the Script Developer Firefox extension.
