---
layout: manual
title: 5.0.x
position: 984
sorted: true
---

h2. XLT 5.1.0

See "here":https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/3?closed=1 for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

h3. Test Framework

h4. Socket instrumentation fails with Java 13

Load tests could not be run with Java 13 or later as instrumenting the socket layer to gather low-level network measurements failed. This was caused by the new socket implementation in Java 13 which comes with some API changes.

h4. Update 3rd-party libraries

Several 3rd-party libraries, most notably HtmlUnit, have been updated.


h3. Load Testing

h4. Agent should search default Gradle classes directories

The XLT agent that executes a load test suite searches several directories inside the uploaded test suite for test classes and libraries. Now this includes the default Gradle classes directories as well. See below for the current list of directories that are searched (in this order) for classes and libraries, respectively.

*Classes Directories*

* @<testsuite>/classes@
* @<testsuite>/target/classes@ (Maven)
* @<testsuite>/target/test-classes@ (Maven)
* @<testsuite>/build/classes/java/main@ (Gradle)
* @<testsuite>/build/classes/java/test@ (Gradle)
* @<testsuite>/bin@ (Eclipse)

*Library Directories*

* @<testsuite>/lib@
* @<testsuite>/target/dependency@ (Maven)

h4. Support new region us-west3 in gce_admin

Google opened a new data center in Salt Lake City, Utah, USA (us-west3). @gce_admin@, our tool to manage machine instances in the Google cloud, now fully supports this new region as well.



h2. XLT 5.0.1

The main goal of this release was to prepare everything needed so that XLT can be published to "Maven Central":https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.xceptance/xlt. This means that from now on XLT will be hosted there instead of the Xceptance repository. Consequently, you'll no longer need to configure the Xceptance repository in your @pom.xml@:

bc(plain).. 
<!-- Xceptance repo no longer needed. -->
<!--     <repositories> -->
<!--         <repository> -->
<!--             <id>xc-nexus</id> -->
<!--             <url>https://lab.xceptance.de/nexus/content/groups/public</url> -->
<!--         </repository> -->
<!--     </repositories> -->

<dependencies>
	<dependency>
		<groupId>com.xceptance</groupId>
		<artifactId>xlt</artifactId>
		<version>5.0.1</version>
	</dependency>
</dependencies>

p. Furthermore, this release fixes an @ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException@ thrown sporadically by HtmlUnit's HTML parser.

p. See "here":https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/2 for the complete list of improvements and fixes.



h2. XLT 5.0.0

h3. XLT Goes Open Source

We have often been asked why XLT (Xceptance LoadTest) is free but not open source. Now, after considering our customers' business needs and the advantages of using open source as opposed to free software, Xceptance has decided to open source XLT under the Apache License 2.0.

Within the next 30 days, we will restructure the XLT code base and move subprojects into independent open repositories. We will also continue to expand and improve the documentation. All code will be published on GitHub.

Xceptance will continue to maintain and extend XLT as before. Releases will be built and published by Xceptance on a regular schedule. Libraries will be published to Maven Central as part of the open-sourcing process. The latest releases will be available from the XLT GitHub repository as well.

If you are interested in training, projects, or support for XLT and load testing in general, we of course also offer those services, and will expand this offering further in upcoming months.

By open sourcing, we are opening a new chapter for XLT and we invite everyone to join us. More to come!


h3. Additional Changes

*XLT unlimited out of box* - Now anyone can run load tests with as many virtual test users as needed. The special license file @license.xml@ is no longer needed to unlock that feature.

*HtmlUnit updated* - Both HtmlUnit and its accompanying HtmlUnitDriver have been updated to version 2.37.0.

*Legacy tools removed* - XLT no longer ships with XLT Script Developer and XLT Proxy Recorder.
