---
layout: manual
title: 5.1.x
position: 983
sorted: true
---

h2. XLT 5.1.2

See "here":https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/5?closed=1 for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

h3. Load Testing

h4. Support new region asia-southeast2 in gce_admin

Google opened a new data center in Jakarta, Indonesia (asia-southeast2). @gce_admin@, our tool to manage machine instances in the Google cloud, now fully supports this new region as well.

h4. Page load timings missing in Graphite

In older versions of XLT, page load timings were reported as custom timers to Graphite. Since promoting page load timing data from custom timers to a dedicated data type in XLT 4.12.0, this data was no longer sent to Graphite by mistake.

This is fixed now, but note that this data is no longer stored to the "custom" subtrees, but to the "pageLoadTimings" subtrees instead. The bucket name structure for both specific page load timing records and summary records is similar to that of actions and custom timers. See below for an example how page load timing data is reported to Graphite:

bc(plain). 
xlt.Posters.ac001.pageLoadTimings.Homepage__FirstContentfulPaint_.errors 0 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.pageLoadTimings.Homepage__FirstContentfulPaint_.runtime.max 543 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.pageLoadTimings.Homepage__FirstContentfulPaint_.runtime.mean 543.00 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.pageLoadTimings.Homepage__FirstContentfulPaint_.runtime.min 543 1592575693
...
xlt.Posters.ac001.summary.pageLoadTimings.count 18 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.summary.pageLoadTimings.errors 0 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.summary.pageLoadTimings.runtime.max 543 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.summary.pageLoadTimings.runtime.mean 270.17 1592575693
xlt.Posters.ac001.summary.pageLoadTimings.runtime.min 20 1592575693



h2. XLT 5.1.1

See "here":https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/4?closed=1 for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

h3. Load Testing

h4. ec2_admin and gce_admin support new cloud regions

Recently, Amazon and Google opened new data centers:

* Amazon:
** Milan, Italy, Europe (eu-south-1)
** Cape Town, South Africa, Africa (af-south-1)
* Google:
** Las Vegas, Nevada, USA (us-west4)

These regions are now supported in @ec2_admin@  and @gce_admin@, respectively.

h4. AWS EC2 images updated

Our AWS EC2 machine images with XLT pre-installed are now based on Ubuntu 18.04. We have also updated certain software packages to the latest available version. This includes AdoptOpenJDK, Firefox ESR, and Geckodriver.



h2. XLT 5.1.0

See "here":https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/3?closed=1 for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

h3. Test Framework

h4. Socket instrumentation fails with Java 13

Load tests could not be run with Java 13 or later as instrumenting the socket layer to gather low-level network measurements failed. This was caused by the new socket implementation in Java 13 which comes with some API changes.

h4. Update 3rd-party libraries

Several 3rd-party libraries, most notably HtmlUnit, have been updated.


h3. Load Testing

h4. Agent should search default Gradle classes directories

The XLT agent that executes a load test suite searches several directories inside the uploaded test suite for test classes and libraries. Now this includes the default Gradle classes directories as well. See below for the current list of directories that are searched (in this order) for classes and libraries, respectively.

*Classes Directories*

* @<testsuite>/classes@
* @<testsuite>/target/classes@ (Maven)
* @<testsuite>/target/test-classes@ (Maven)
* @<testsuite>/build/classes/java/main@ (Gradle)
* @<testsuite>/build/classes/java/test@ (Gradle)
* @<testsuite>/bin@ (Eclipse)

*Library Directories*

* @<testsuite>/lib@
* @<testsuite>/target/dependency@ (Maven)

h4. Support new region us-west3 in gce_admin

Google opened a new data center in Salt Lake City, Utah, USA (us-west3). @gce_admin@, our tool to manage machine instances in the Google cloud, now fully supports this new region as well.
