---
layout: manual
title: 5.4.x
position: 980
sorted: true
---

h2. XLT 5.4.0

h3. Load Testing

h4. Progress indication when generating reports

The report generation hasn't indicated the progress in detail which made it hard to judge the remaining runtime. This release adds simple progress bars which will indicate a progress as well as an estimated remaining runtime. Big thanks to the "ProgressBar project":https://github.com/ctongfei/progressbar/!

h4. Timer files stored in compressed form

XLT has been keeping all data in clear text files for easy post processing and open data handling. However, the @timers.csv@ files occupy a large share of the required space on disk after a test run. While the download already runs compressed, the final on-disk storage was plain. This release changes this behavior and stores the @timers.csv@ in a compressed GZIP format by default. The report generator learned to deal with compressed as well as uncompressed formats automatically.

For example, a result set with previously 9.5 GB of storage space now only requires 1.1 GB. As an additional advantage, report generation might run faster on systems with slower disks such as regular cloud machines. Furthermore, the download of results from the agents will also run faster due to less write operations.

If you find it necessary to revert to the old behavior of plain uncompressed storage, you can set the property @com.xceptance.xlt.mastercontroller.compressedTimerFiles@ in file @mastercontroller.properties@ to false.

h4. Illegal access warning in ec2_admin

The @ec2_admin@ raised an illegal reflective access warning when it's reporting problems such as trying to delete something that does not exist:

bc(plain). 
Terminating the selected instances in region 'eu-central-1' ... WARNING: An illegal reflective access operation has occurred
WARNING: Illegal reflective access by com.amazonaws.util.XpathUtils (file:/home/anyone/projects/loadtest/xlt-5.3.0/lib/aws-java-sdk-core-1.11.762.jar) to method com.sun.org.apache.xpath.internal.XPathContext.getDTMManager()
WARNING: Please consider reporting this to the maintainers of com.amazonaws.util.XpathUtils
WARNING: Use --illegal-access=warn to enable warnings of further illegal reflective access operations
WARNING: All illegal access operations will be denied in a future release
Failed: No instances specified (Service: AmazonEC2; Status Code: 400; Error Code: InvalidParameterCombination; Request ID: 23234-3bd3-4157-b365-4bf7b4432221ec7)

While we cannot fix the illegal access (it is made in a foreign library), we can at least suppress these warnings by passing the appropriate command line options to java in @ec2_admin.sh@.


h3. Test Framework

h4. Socket instrumentation won't work with Java 16

When running a test scenario with Java 16, the socket instrumentation code to gather network timing data (connect time, time to first bytes, etc.) could not be installed and the test scenario failed with this error message:

bc(plain). 
java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: Could not initialize class com.xceptance.xlt.engine.socket.InstrumentedSocketImpl

This issue is fixed now.